OLMv1 OCP 4.17 release notes (#82606)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-17-release-notes.adoc

The updated location and guide name reflect a more focused documentation experience and aims to differentiate between {olmv1} and {olmv0}.

[id="ocp-4-17-extensions-new-features_{context}"]
===== {olmv1} Technology Preview features

This release introduces the following new features to {olmv1} Technology Preview:

Custom resource definition (CRD) upgrade safety ::

> When you update a custom resource definition (CRD) that is provided by a cluster extension, {olmv1-first} runs a CRD upgrade safety preflight check to ensure backwards compatibility with previous versions of that CRD. The CRD update must pass the validation checks before the change is allowed to progress on a cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you update a custom resource definition (CRD) that is provided by a cluster extension, {olmv1-first} now runs a CRD upgrade safety preflight check to ensure backwards compatibility with previous versions of that CRD. The CRD update must pass the validation checks before the change is allowed to progress on a cluster.
```

+
For more information, see xref:../extensions/ce/crd-upgrade-safety.adoc#crd-upgrade-safety[CRD upgrade safety].

> Clear object ownership for cluster extensions ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Single object ownership for cluster extensions ::
```

The updated location and guide name reflect a more focused documentation experience and aims to differentiate between {olmv1} and {olmv0}.

[id="ocp-4-17-extensions-new-features_{context}"]
==== {olmv1} Technology Preview features

This release introduces the following new features to {olmv1} Technology Preview:

Custom resource definition (CRD) upgrade safety::
When you update a custom resource definition (CRD) that is provided by a cluster extension, {olmv1-first} now runs a CRD upgrade safety preflight check to ensure backwards compatibility with previous versions of that CRD. The CRD update must pass the validation checks before the change is allowed to progress on a cluster.
+
For more information, see xref:../extensions/ce/crd-upgrade-safety.adoc#crd-upgrade-safety[Custom resource definition (CRD) upgrade safety].

Single object ownership for cluster extensions::
In {olmv1}, a Kubernetes object can only be owned by a single `ClusterExtension` object at a time. This ensures that objects within an {product-title} cluster are managed consistently and prevents conflicts between multiple cluster extensions attempting to control the same object.
+

> For more information, see _Object ownership for cluster extensions_.

Reviewer: xref is ready:
```suggestion
For more information, see xref:../extensions/arch/operator-controller.adoc#olmv1-object-ownership_operator-controller[Object ownership for cluster extensions].
```

Enhanced security::
{olmv1} now requires a dedicated service account for installing, updating, and managing cluster extensions. Additionally, catalogd uses HTTPS encryption to secure catalog server responses.
+

> For more information, see _Creating a service account to manage cluster extensions_.

Reviewer 2: Seems like this `_Creating` should be a link.

Author: @jianzhangbjz As soon as https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/82245 merges, I can create the cross reference link.

Author: Addressed. Since @jianzhangbjz is on vacation, can another member of the OLM QE team, PTAL?

cc: @kuiwang02, @Xia-Zhao-rh, @bandrade

Reviewer 3: /lgtm

When you update a custom resource definition (CRD) that is provided by a cluster extension, {olmv1-first} now runs a CRD upgrade safety preflight check to ensure backwards compatibility with previous versions of that CRD. The CRD update must pass the validation checks before the change is allowed to progress on a cluster.
+
For more information, see xref:../extensions/ce/crd-upgrade-safety.adoc#crd-upgrade-safety[Custom resource definition (CRD) upgrade safety].

Single object ownership for cluster extensions::
In {olmv1}, a Kubernetes object can only be owned by a single `ClusterExtension` object at a time. This ensures that objects within an {product-title} cluster are managed consistently and prevents conflicts between multiple cluster extensions attempting to control the same object.
+
For more information, see _Object ownership for cluster extensions_.

Enhanced security::
{olmv1} now requires a dedicated service account for installing, updating, and managing cluster extensions. Additionally, catalogd uses HTTPS encryption to secure catalog server responses.
+
For more information, see _Creating a service account to manage cluster extensions_.

Vendoring of Helm libraries::

> In this release, {olmv1} embeds some of Helm's libaries to unpack and manage the installation of cluster extensions.

Reviewer 4: I know we've talked about this before, but I don't feel that we should mention this.  It is an implementation detail, and there is no actual helm chart support or any helm concepts exposed on an API surface. Only registry+v1 bundles are supported. We happen to use helm libraries under the hood to take a shortcut, but we could very easily rip them out if we find they fall short for features we implement later.

Author: Addressed

The updated location and guide name reflect a more focused documentation experience and aims to differentiate between {olmv1} and {olmv0}.

[id="ocp-4-17-extensions-new-features_{context}"]
==== {olmv1} Technology Preview features

> This release introduces the following new features to {olmv1} Technology Preview:

Reviewer: Just a musing:
```suggestion
This Technology Preview phase of {olmv1} introduces the following features:
```

Custom resource definition (CRD) upgrade safety::

> When you update a custom resource definition (CRD) that is provided by a cluster extension, {olmv1-first} now runs a CRD upgrade safety preflight check to ensure backwards compatibility with previous versions of that CRD. The CRD update must pass the validation checks before the change is allowed to progress on a cluster.

Reviewer: Since these are both already spelled out before this sentence:
```suggestion
When you update a CRD that is provided by a cluster extension, {olmv1} now runs a CRD upgrade safety preflight check to ensure backwards compatibility with previous versions of that CRD. The CRD update must pass the validation checks before the change is allowed to progress on a cluster.
```

+

> For more information, see xref:../extensions/ce/crd-upgrade-safety.adoc#crd-upgrade-safety[Custom resource definition (CRD) upgrade safety].

Reviewer: But +1 to spelling out here since that is literal title.
